---
layout: post
date: 2019-07-12 10:33:45
title: "Yay! Moved to GitHub Pages"
categories: projects
author_name : binnur
author_url : /author/binnur
author_avatar: binnur
show_avatar : true
read_time : 3
feature_image: feature-fish2
show_related_posts: false
square_related: recommend-mountain
---
Welcome to my new site! This is a behind the scenes look at my move off of
WordPress. There are two significant aspects to this move:
1. I am dusting off my blog with the goal to write more
2. After years of using WordPress, change is good, really good!!

## So, why GitHub, and why now?
> "There is virtue in work and there is virtue in rest. Use both and overlook
neither."
> Alan Cohen

I have been enjoying my personal break and bringing back some of my old habits, which
I miss... As I reflected on blogging, I realized I had a love/hate relationship
with my old blog. I enjoyed verbalizing my thoughts, but it
also felt too heavy and time consuming. Part of it was how I approached my
writing, more formal and deep, and part of it was the time it took to manage the
blogging platform.

So, with this move, my objective is to:
1. Create a light-weight writing experience where I can experiment easily
2. Simplify the publishing platform and make it fun!

I have used WordPress for a long time, even hosted it myself in the early days.
However, as an engineer at heart, I like the simplicity of git, how it handles
versioning, and I have been looking for ways to spend more time using it. There is something deeply
satisfying about using vim for editing, and git for check-ins.

I did try to experiment with Medium for writing -- but, I didn't find it
gave me the creative controls. And, I
just couldn't make it past my rough draft. I am also not a fan of
Medium's subscription model, so that didn't help.

## Summary: My Workflow
[Jekyll for Docker](https://hub.docker.com/r/jekyll/jekyll/) made it really easy
to get started with Jekyll. That coupled with the simplicity of the [Writer
Jekyll](https://themeforest.net/item/writer-a-minimal-blog-for-jekyll/10562560)
theme by [AdventureThemes](http://adventurethemes.com/) made it a breeze to get
started with my new blog site. Setting up a GitHub Page is easy -- just takes a minute. I spent a few hours moving my old content to the
new site, and here we go!

With that, my workflow:
* Start a new blog post on a local branch
* Edit/preview on vscode
* Test on a local server via docker-compose
* Push branch to github and ping my editor, i.e. hubby :) for a quick read
* Fix my highlighted issues
* Once done, PR and merge

I also started a GitHub project to capture blog ideas, site improvements, etc.
It is configured for automated workflow, because why not?! As a bonus, this
activity got me reinterested in photography, and I have been thinking about how to use
Apple's Photos app in my workflow, as Aperture have been discontinued and I haven't found a
replacement.

In the process of setting up this blog, I decided to turn off comments. Any
potential conversations can take place on other social platforms, likely
Twitter. And, at least for now, I am happy with GitHub's Traffic Insights.

I *think* this pretty much covers it. Till next time!
